.. _eval-ad7134-fmcz user-guide:

User guide
==========

The complete user guide of the evaluation board can be found at
:adi:`EVAL-AD7134FMCZ User Guide
<en/resources/evaluation-hardware-and-software/evaluation-boards-kits/eval-ad7134fmcz.html>`.

Additional documentation:

-  :adi:`AD7134 Data Sheet
   <media/en/technical-documentation/data-sheets/ad7134.pdf>`

Hardware guide
--------------

Hardware configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :adi:`EVAL-AD7134FMCZ` board connects to the FPGA carrier via the FMC LPC
connector. On the
`ZedBoard <https://digilent.com/reference/programmable-logic/zedboard/start>`__,
configure the BOOT switches (JP7-JP11) and the MIO0 jumper (JP6) for the desired
boot mode. Refer to the :ref:`eval-ad7134-fmcz quickstart zed` guide for the
specific jumper positions for SD card and JTAG boot modes.

The following jumpers on the evaluation board must be configured:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   - - Jumper/Solder link
     - Position
     - Description
   - - JP14
     - Mounted
     - DEC0/DCLKIO
   - - JP15
     - Mounted
     - DEC0/DCLKIO
   - - JP16
     - Mounted
     - MODE
   - - JP17
     - Mounted
     - MODE

The device mode of operation can be set to either **MASTER** or **SLAVE** by
changing the P10 jumper position:

-  P10 **open**: master mode (default on the EVB)
-  P10 **shorted**: slave mode

Make sure to change the mode in both software (``app_config.h`` file) and
hardware, and power-cycle the EVAL-AD7134FMCZ to reflect the new mode.

Power supply
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :adi:`EVAL-AD7134FMCZ` evaluation board requires an external **9 V** power
supply connected to the appropriate header on the evaluation board.

The :adi:`AD7134` can be powered from a **4.5 V to 5.5 V** analog power supply
and a **1.65 V to 1.95 V** digital power supply for 1.8 V I/O level. It
supports external voltage references of 2.5 V, 4.096 V, and 5 V, and a crystal
or CMOS external clock of 48 MHz.

The FPGA carrier board (ZedBoard) is powered separately through its own 12 V
power input connector (J20). The VADJ voltage provided from the carrier through
the FMC connector must be set to **1.8 V** as specified in the HDL project's
README at :external+hdl:ref:`ad7134_fmc`.

Analog inputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :adi:`AD7134` provides 4 differential analog input channels with
simultaneous sampling at up to 1.5 MSPS. The device uses continuous-time
sigma-delta modulation technology that does not use sample-and-hold circuitry,
providing inherent alias rejection up to 100 dB.

For testing purposes, connect a signal generator to the analog inputs of the
evaluation board using the appropriate jumper wires or SMB connectors. For
optimal performance, use a low noise, low distortion signal source such as an
Audio Precision audio analyzer.

Data acquisition performance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :adi:`AD7134` supports a wide range of output data rate (ODR) frequencies,
from 0.01 kSPS to 1496 kSPS with less than 0.01 SPS adjustment resolution,
allowing the user to granularly vary sampling speed to achieve coherent sampling.

The device offers three digital filter profile options:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   - - Filter type
     - ODR range
   - - Wideband low ripple
     - 2.5 kSPS to 374 kSPS
   - - Sinc3 (fast responding)
     - 0.01 kSPS to 1496 kSPS
   - - Sinc6 (balanced)
     - 2.5 kSPS to 1.496 MSPS

The HDL reference design uses the
:external+hdl:ref:`spi_engine` to interface with the
ADC. The design operates in slave mode, with both the data clock (DCLK) and
output data rate (ODR) signals generated by the FPGA.

Schematic, PCB layout, bill of materials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Design and layout files for the evaluation board can be found on the product
page:

-  :adi:`EVAL-AD7134FMCZ design files
   <en/resources/evaluation-hardware-and-software/evaluation-boards-kits/eval-ad7134fmcz.html>`

Software guide
--------------

The evaluation board is supported both with Linux (using the Libiio library)
and with no-OS (bare metal). The Libiio library is cross-platform (Windows,
Linux, Mac) with language bindings for C, C#, Python, and others. Applications
that can be used with it are:

-  :git-iio-oscilloscope:`IIO Oscilloscope <releases+>`
-  :external+scopy:doc:`Scopy <index>`

For no-OS (bare metal), the AD7134 IIO firmware application runs on the
SDP-K1 (MBED) or Nucleo-L552ZEQ (STM32) controller boards and communicates
over UART or VirtualCOM port. The firmware supports SPI and TDM communication
modes, with continuous and burst data capture. Refer to the
:ref:`no-OS quick start section <eval-ad7134-fmcz quickstart zed>` for details.

Python support is available through the
:external+pyadi-iio:doc:`pyadi-iio <index>` library using the
``ad7134_data_capture.py`` script.
