.. _eval-ad4134-fmcz user-guide:

User guide
==========

The complete user guide of the evaluation board can be found at
:adi:`EVAL-AD4134FMCZ User Guide
<en/resources/evaluation-hardware-and-software/evaluation-boards-kits/eval-ad4134.html>`.

Additional documentation:

-  :adi:`AD4134 Data Sheet
   <media/en/technical-documentation/data-sheets/ad4134.pdf>`

Hardware guide
--------------

Hardware configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :adi:`EVAL-AD4134FMCZ` board connects to the FPGA carrier via the FMC LPC
connector. On the
`ZedBoard <https://digilent.com/reference/programmable-logic/zedboard/start>`__,
configure the BOOT switches (JP7-JP11) and the MIO0 jumper (JP6) for the desired
boot mode. Refer to the :ref:`eval-ad4134-fmcz quickstart zed` guide for the
specific jumper positions for SD card and JTAG boot modes.

The following jumpers on the evaluation board must be configured:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   - - Jumper/Solder link
     - Position
     - Description
   - - JP16
     - Mounted
     - MODE (Slave) and DCLKIO (Input)

The device mode of operation can be set to either **MASTER** or **SLAVE** by
changing the P10 jumper position:

-  P10 **open**: master mode (default on the EVB)
-  P10 **shorted**: slave mode

Make sure to change the mode in both software (``app_config.h`` file) and
hardware, and power-cycle the EVAL-AD4134FMCZ to reflect the new mode.

Power supply
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :adi:`EVAL-AD4134FMCZ` evaluation board requires an external **9 V** power
supply connected to the appropriate header on the evaluation board.

The :adi:`AD4134` can be powered from a **4.5 V to 5.5 V** analog power supply
and a **1.65 V to 1.95 V** digital power supply for 1.8 V I/O level. It
supports external voltage references of 2.5 V, 4.096 V, and 5 V, and a crystal
or CMOS external clock of 48 MHz.

The FPGA carrier board (ZedBoard) is powered separately through its own 12 V
power input connector (J20). The VADJ voltage provided from the carrier through
the FMC connector must be set to **1.8 V** as specified in the HDL project's
README at :external+hdl:ref:`ad4134_fmc`.

Analog inputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :adi:`AD4134` provides 4 differential analog input channels with
simultaneous sampling at up to 1496 kSPS. The device uses continuous-time
sigma-delta modulation technology that does not use sample-and-hold circuitry,
providing inherent alias rejection up to 100 dB. The maximum input bandwidth
is 391.5 kHz.

For testing purposes, connect a signal generator to the analog inputs of the
evaluation board using the appropriate jumper wires or SMB connectors. For
optimal performance, use a low noise, low distortion signal source such as an
Audio Precision audio analyzer.

Data acquisition performance (SPI clock and sample rate)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The system is designed to acquire continuous data from the 24-bit 4-channel
precision alias free ADC device, supporting a maximum sample rate of 1496 kSPS.
The HDL reference design operates in slave mode, with both the data clock (DCLK)
and output data rate (ODR) signals generated by the FPGA using the
:external+hdl:ref:`SPI Engine Framework <spi_engine>`.

Schematic, PCB layout, bill of materials
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Design and layout files for the evaluation board can be found on the product
page:

-  :adi:`EVAL-AD4134FMCZ design files
   <en/resources/evaluation-hardware-and-software/evaluation-boards-kits/eval-ad4134.html>`

Software guide
--------------

The evaluation board is supported both with Linux (using the Libiio library)
and with no-OS (bare metal). The Libiio library is cross-platform (Windows,
Linux, Mac) with language bindings for C, C#, Python, and others. Applications
that can be used with it are:

-  :git-iio-oscilloscope:`IIO Oscilloscope <releases+>`
-  :external+scopy:doc:`Scopy <index>`

Python support is available through the
:external+pyadi-iio:doc:`pyadi-iio <index>` library.
